%###########################################################################
% OSADL Open Source Policy Template for License Compliance
%
% Annex with template texts for distributing encrypted GPL software.
%
% Copyright (c) 2021 Open Source Automation Development Lab (OSADL) eG
%
%###########################################################################

Encryption and GPL - Template texts

Annex to Open Source Policy Template

Send-in solution
The following template text must be used to inform recipients of encrypted
software licensed under a GNU General Public License how the send-in solution
[unlocking variant / installation variant] for installing their own software
versions works.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
English:
The safety of this product is of great importance to us. Therefore, as a rule,
modified versions of the deployed Open Source software can only be installed
[if the security features in use are removed by us / if this is enabled by us].
Please note that the installation of modified software can entail that possible
safety requirements on the product are no longer fulfilled and that
consequently, it can no longer be used in the originally intended way.

If you still wish to install modified versions of the software components
licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL) and/or the GNU Lesser
General Public License (LGPL), please contact (open-source@company.tld) noting
that you would like to install own versions of the software on your device. You
will then receive all necessary information to return the device to us
[including the software to be installed. The latter must contain adequate
installation information].

In order to comply with our license obligations towards the GPL and/or LGPL
licensors, we will remove the security features in use, [thereby enabling you
to install GPL and/or LGPL software, / install your GPL and/or LGPL software,]
remove our trademarks from the product, and return the product to you. However,
redistribution of the product with modified software is not permitted as
exhaustion of the distribution right cannot occur for the specific copy. Also
the use of the product may be prohibited if it violates any legal provisions.
It is your responsibility to check whether the use is permissible in the
specific case or to obtain the required permits. The warranty is void for any
defects related to the use of modified software.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Deutsch:
Die Sicherheit dieses Produktes ist für uns von großer Wichtigkeit. Daher
können modifizierte Versionen der verwendeten Open Source-Software im Regelfall
nur installiert werden, [wenn die verwendeten Sicherheitsfeatures durch uns
entfernt werden / wenn dies durch uns ermöglicht wird]. Bitte beachten Sie,
dass die Installation modifizierter Software dazu führen kann, dass eventuell
geltende Sicherheitsanforderungen an das Produkt nicht mehr erfüllt werden und
dieses dann nicht mehr in der ursprünglich vorgesehenen Form genutzt werden
kann.

Wenn Sie dennoch modifizierte Versionen der Softwarekomponenten installieren
möchten, die unter der GNU General Public License (GPL) und/oder der GNU Lesser
General Public License (LGPL) lizenziert sind, kontaktieren Sie bitte
(open-source@company.tld) mit dem Hinweis, dass Sie eigene Versionen der
Software auf Ihr Gerät installieren möchten. Sie erhalten sodann alle
notwendigen Informationen für die Rücksendung des Gerätes an uns [und die
Lieferung der zu installierenden Software. Letztere muss hinreichende
Installationsinformationen enthalten].

Wir werden dann zur Erfüllung unserer Lizenzpflichten gegenüber den GPL-
und/oder LGPL-Lizenzgebern die verwendeten Sicherheitsfeatures entfernen,
[Ihnen dadurch die Installation von GPL- und/oder LGPL-Software ermöglichen, /
Ihre GPL- und/oder LGPL-Software installieren,] unsere Marken vom Produkt
entfernen und das Produkt wieder an Sie zurücksenden. Die Weiterverbreitung des
Produkts mit modifizierter Software ist allerdings nicht gestattet, weil am
konkreten Vervielfältigungsstück keine Erschöpfung des Verbreitungsrechtes
eintreten kann. Auch die Verwendung des Produkts kann verboten sein, wenn es
gegen gesetzliche Bestimmungen verstößt. Es obliegt Ihnen zu überprüfen, ob
die Verwendung im konkreten Fall zulässig ist bzw. die dafür erforderlichen
Genehmigungen einzuholen. Die Gewährleistung erlischt für alle Mängel, die
auf der Verwendung modifizierter Software beruhen.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++


Encryption together with differently licensed components

The following template text must be used to inform recipients of software
licensed under a GNU General Public License that is encrypted together with
differently licensed components how they can decrypt the GPL-components and
what consequences result from such actions.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
English:
Dear Customer,
the purchased device contains software that was encrypted for security and/or
safety reasons. However, the license of some of the software components
requires enabling installation of your own version of such software. Therefore,
the key to decrypt the software is included in the delivery of the product.

In the event that you exercise your right, i.e., decrypt the software and
install your own software, we would like to point out the following
consequences:

- The principle of exhaustion does not apply with respect to the trademarks in
case the software was modified. Redistribution of the product with our
trademarks on it is therefore not permitted without our consent.

- The warranty expires for all defects that are caused by the modification of
the software.

- You may be held liable for damages that may result from the use of the
product with modified software, especially if you allow third parties to use
it.

- The use of the product may be prohibited if it violates legal regulations. It
is your responsibility to check whether the use is permitted in the specific
case or to subject the product to the required certification.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Deutsch:
Sehr geehrter Kunde,
das von Ihnen erworbene Gerät enthält Software, die wir aus
Sicherheitsgründen verschlüsselt haben. Allerdings verlangt die Lizenz der
Software, dass wir Ihnen den Schlüssel verfügbar machen, so dass Sie eigene
Versionen der so lizenzierten Softwarekomponenten selbständig aufspielen
können.

Für den Fall, dass Sie von diesem Recht Gebrauch machen, d.h. die Software
entschlüsseln und eigene Software aufspielen, weisen wir auf folgende
Konsequenzen hin:

- Der markenrechtliche Erschöpfungsgrundsatz greift bei einer Modifikation der
Software nicht ein. Eine Weiterverbreitung des Produktes mit unseren
Markenhinweisen ist damit ohne unsere Zustimmung nicht zulässig.

- Die Gewährleistung erlischt für alle Mängel, die auf der Verwendung
modifizierter Software beruhen.

- Sie können für Schäden haftbar gemacht werden, die sich aus der Benutzung
des Produktes mit einer modifizierten Software ergeben können, insbesondere
wenn Sie Dritten die Benutzung ermöglichen.

- Die Verwendung des Produkts kann verboten sein, wenn dies gegen gesetzliche
Bestimmungen verstößt. Es obliegt Ihnen zu überprüfen, ob die Verwendung im
konkreten Fall zulässig ist, bzw. die dafür erforderlichen Genehmigungen
einzuholen.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
