%###########################################################################
%
% Annex to the OSADL Open Source Policy Template
%
% Copyright (c) 2019,2020 Open Source Automation Development Lab (OSADL) eG
% Author: Till Jaeger, Astrid Spura, Caren Kresse 
% 
%###########################################################################

Special purchase conditions for Free and Open Source Software (FOSS-SPC)


1 Scope

These FOSS-SPC apply to the purchase of all products containing software by 
COMPANY and independent of the type of contract on which the purchase is based. 
The provisions of these FOSS-SPC shall prevail within their scope over our other 
conditions of purchase and the General Terms and Conditions of the supplier.

2 Definition

2.1 Free and Open Source Software (“FOSS”) for the purpose of this FOSS-SPC is 
software the license of which meets the requirements of the ”Open Source 
Definition“ (https://opensource.org/osd) of the Open Source Initiative and/or is 
registered in the publicly accessible lists of Free Licenses and Open Source 
Licenses of the Free Software Foundation and/or the Open Source Initiative, 
respectively.

2.2 These FOSS-SPC apply to Public Domain Software accordingly.

3 Verification and information obligations of the supplier

The supplier shall be aware that non-compliance with the license obligations for 
FOSS may result in a violation of copyright law, and thus, in defects of title 
of the supplied products. The supplier alone is responsible for meeting the 
license conditions of all FOSS that is included in the products supplied to 
COMPANY . This also applies to embedded systems as well as firmware updates and 
any other software distribution. The supplier must check the software included 
in his products for FOSS and must also gather the required information from 
sub-suppliers. It is the responsibility of the supplier to comply with the 
OpenChain Standard Version 1.2 
(https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/_media/openchain/openchainspec-1.2.pdf) or any 
later version.

4 FOSS documentation

At the latest with delivery of the product the supplier must provide COMPANY 
with

a) a ”Bill of Materials” (”BOM”), i.e. a list of the used FOSS components, 
corresponding version number and respective FOSS licenses as SPDX identifier 
(https://spdx.org/licenses/), and

b) a document for the compliance with the FOSS licenses (”Open Source Content 
Documentation”) which contains all license texts and copyright notices with 
regard to the respective files in Debian DEP-5 format 
(http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/copyright-format/1.0/) or SPDX 
format (https://spdx.org/spdx-specification-21-web-version) and additionally all 
further information that must be provided when distributing the software 
according to the applying licenses.

c) the complete and corresponding source code of FOSS contained in the product.

5 Use of copyleft licenses

5.1 The supplier must ensure that copyleft-licensed software is used in products 
only in a way that does not bear the risk that COMPANY must license own software 
components or third-party software components as FOSS when used in combination 
with the product without having obtained a prior approval from COMPANY for this 
purpose. Copyleft licenses are here considered to be those FOSS licenses that 
require modifications of software licensed as such to also be licensed as FOSS 
when distributing it.

5.2 The supplier ensures that the license conditions of all software components 
linked with FOSS licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License allow any 
user of the software modification and reengineering for debugging such 
modifications.

5.3 The supplier ensures that COMPANY will be provided with all necessary 
information required to enable compilation and reinstallation of FOSS licensed 
under the GNU Lesser General Public License, the GNU General Public License and 
the GNU Affero General Public License (if applicable), especially in case the 
product is an embedded system.

6 Assurance

The supplier assures that the distributed products do not violate any 
third-party copyrights and that the license conditions of all FOSS and 
third-party software are fully met.

7 Violation of these FOSS-SPC

7.1 In case of violation of these FOSS-SPC the supplier agrees to either 
immediately remedy any defects and/or replace those FOSS components that are not 
compliant with their license by license-compliant components.

7.2 The supplier agrees to compensate COMPANY for all damages and costs arising 
from the failure to comply with the provisions given in this FOSS-SPC.



========================================
Deutsche Version:
========================================

Besondere Einkaufsbedingungen für Freie und Open Source-Software (FOSS-BEB)


1 Geltungsbereich

Diese FOSS-BEB gelten für den Erwerb sämtlicher Produkte, die Software 
enthalten, durch UNTERNEHMEN und unabhängig von dem Vertragstypus des dem Erwerb 
zugrunde liegenden Vertrages. Die FOSS-BEB gelten in ihrem Anwendungsbereich 
vorrangig vor unseren übrigen Einkaufsbedingungen und den Allgemeinen 
Geschäftsbedingungen des Anbieters.

2 Definition

2.1 Freie Software und Open Source-Software (“FOSS”) im Sinne dieser FOSS-BEB 
ist Software, deren Lizenz den Anforderungen der „Open Source Definition“ 
(https://opensource.org/osd) der Open Source Initiative genügt und/oder von der 
Open Source Initiative und/oder der Free Software Foundation in deren öffentlich 
zugänglichen Listen Open Source-Lizenzen bzw. freier Lizenzen aufgenommen wurde.

2.2 Für Public Domain-Software gelten diese FOSS-BEB entsprechend.

3 Prüfungs- und Informationspflichten des Anbieters

Dem Anbieter ist bekannt, dass die Nichteinhaltung der Lizenzbedingungen für 
FOSS zu einer Urheberrechtsverletzung und zu einem Rechtsmangel der an 
UNTERNEHMEN gelieferten Produkte führen kann. Der Anbieter ist alleine dafür 
verantwortlich, die Lizenzbedingungen sämtlicher FOSS einzuhalten, die in den an 
UNTERNEHMEN gelieferten Produkten enthalten ist. Dies betrifft sowohl 
Embbeded-Systeme als auch Firmware-Updates und jede andere Distribution von 
Software. Der Anbieter hat die in seinen Produkten enthaltene Software auf FOSS 
zu überprüfen und auch von Vorlieferanten die erforderlichen Informationen 
einzuholen. Die Einhaltung des OpenChain Standards in der Version 1.2 
(https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/_media/openchain/openchainspec-1.2.pdf) oder 
späteren Versionen ist eine Obliegenheit des Anbieters.

4 FOSS Dokumentation

Der Anbieter muss UNTERNEHMEN spätestens mit der Überlassung des Produktes

a) eine „Bill of Materials“ („BOM“), d.h. eine Liste der verwendeten FOSS 
Komponenten, ihrer Versionsnummer und der anwendbaren FOSS Lizenzen als 
SPDX-Identifier (https://spdx.org/licenses/), und

b) ein Dokument zur Einhaltung der FOSS Lizenzen (”Open Source Content 
Documentation”), das alle Lizenztexte und Copyright-Hinweise mit Bezug auf die 
jeweiligen Dateien im Debian DEP-5-Format 
(http://www.debian.org/doc/packaging-manuals/copyright-format/1.0/) oder 
SPDX-Format (https://spdx.org/spdx-specification-21-web-version) enthält, sowie 
zusätzlich alle weiteren Informationen, die aufgrund der anwendbaren Lizenzen 
bei der Überlassung der Software übergeben werden müssen, und

c) den vollständigen und korrespondierenden Quellcode der in dem Produkt 
enthaltenden FOSS zur Verfügung stellen.

5 Einsatz von Copyleft-Lizenzen

5.1 Der Anbieter hat sicherzustellen, dass Software unter Copyleft-Lizenzen in 
den Produkten nur in einer Weise verwendet wird, die nicht das Risiko enthält, 
dass UNTERNEHMEN bei der Verwendung des Produktes in Kombination mit eigenen 
Software-Komponenten oder Software-Komponenten Dritter als FOSS lizenzieren 
muss, ohne dass dafür die vorherige Zustimmung von UNTERNEHMEN eingeholt wurde. 
Als Copyleft-Lizenzen werden solche FOSS-Lizenzen verstanden, deren 
Lizenzbedingungen verlangen, dass Modifikationen der darunter lizenzierten 
Software bei der Weitergabe ebenfalls als FOSS lizenziert werden müssen.

5.2 Der Anbieter stellt sicher, dass die Lizenzbedingungen sämtlicher 
Software-Komponenten, die mit FOSS unter der GNU Lesser General Public License 
verlinkt ist, jedem Nutzer der Software die Bearbeitung zum eigenen Gebrauch und 
das Reengineering zur Behebung von Fehlern solcher Bearbeitungen gestatten.

5.3 Der Anbieter stellt sicher, dass UNTERNEHMEN die erforderlichen 
Informationen zur Verfügung gestellt werden, die das Kompilieren und 
Wiederaufspielen von FOSS unter der GNU Lesser General Public License, der GNU 
General Public License und der GNU Affero General Public License ermöglichen 
(sofern vorhanden), insbesondere wenn das Produkt ein Embedded System ist.

6 Zusicherung
Der Anbieter sichert zu, dass die von ihm gelieferten Produkte keine 
Urheberrechte Dritter verletzen und die Lizenzbedingungen sämtlicher FOSS und 
anderer Third-Party-Software vollständig erfüllt werden.

7 Verletzung dieser FOSS-BEB

7.1 Im Falle einer Verletzung dieser FOSS-BEB verpflichtet sich der Anbieter, 
den Mangel unverzüglich zu beheben und/oder nicht lizenzkonforme 
FOSS-Komponenten durch lizenzkonforme Komponenten zu ersetzen.

7.2 Der Anbieter verpflichtet sich UNTERNEHMEN sämtliche Kosten und Schäden zu 
ersetzen, die sich aus der Nichteinhaltung der Zusicherungen aus diesen FOSS-BEB 
ergeben.
