README

This repository contains the plain text version of the OSADL Open Source Policy 
Template: The Basis for License Compliance. This Open Source Policy is not meant 
to be used as is, but serves as a template from which an individual policy can 
be created. The original template consists of one main pdf document, that 
contains links to Annexes (additional pdf documents to accompany a FOSS policy 
with processes and forms for legal and other information on projects and 
products) and Supplements for further reading (separate pdf documents to provide 
technology background and explain relevant aspects of copyright law and license 
compliance in more detail). For more information on the project go to 
www.osadl.org/os-policy.

The pdf documents of the original OS-Policy template can be filled out according 
to a company's requirements. However, some company's might prefer to customize 
the policy template more extensively. Therefore, the plain text version is 
provided and maintained here.

Contributions

Contributions and feedback on content and usability of the Policy Template are 
welcome. Please send your suggestions and comments as pull requests or issues. 
Contributions will be reviewed and, if approprate, included.

Structure

The origianl pdf documents rely on layout and linking for structuring. As this 
could not be transferred identically to the plain text version, an introduction 
to the structuring of the text files is given below and in the initial 
explanation of the main document.

The main document is OS-Policy_Master.txt. It contains

- Template texts for the various chapters of a FOSS policy that can be adapted 
according to a company’s requirements. These texts are made up of instructions 
with brief explanations for anyone who reads and implements the FOSS policy.

- Additional explanations for whoever creates a company’s individual FOSS 
policy from this template. These may be removed from the final document.
========================================
Initiated and concluded by lines of equal signs
========================================

- When there are various possibilities of interpreting or handling a situation, 
possible options are given:
########################################
Preceeded by the word "Option" and initiated, separated and concluded by lines 
of hashtags
########################################
Option 2: 
########################################

- Ready made text block templates that may be used to modify or extend existing 
company contracts and other documents, such as employment contracts.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Initiated and concluded by lines of plus signs
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- Annexes and Supplements are given as separate .txt files. Where they are 
referenced, the document title is preceded by an arrow ->

Licensing

Copyright (c) 2019,2020 Open Source Automation Development Lab (OSADL) eG 
<info@osadl.org>

For author information see the separate files.

Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC-BY-4.0), 
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
Attribution: A project by the Open Source Automation Development Lab (OSADL) eG, 
www.osadl.org/os-policy
